# Analysis of London Energy Usage

## Proposal
The phenomenon of TV Pickup is a UK Term used to express the spike in electrical energy consumption that occurs when a break takes place in a TV programme that has attracted a large audience. It is typically caused by people boiling kettles for tea and the opening of fridge doors. The phenomenon has been observed for both sporting events as well as popular soap operas. To test the validity of the phenomenon of TV Pickup the following will be analyzed:

* Household Energy Usage During 2013 and 2012 ( https://data.london.gov.uk/dataset/smartmeter-energy-use-data-in-london-households )

* The top 20 sporting events in the United Kingdom based on TV ratings. ( www.barb.co.uk )
    
and compared to try and observe instances of TV Pickup.

## Directory Map

### './raw/'

 Contiains unclean data. In particular, compressed raw monthly power usage data, raw openweathermap bulk data, and unprocessed sunrise/sunset file.

### './data/'

 Cleaned (and/or recombined) data from './raw/' in various stages of preperation.

### './notebooks/'

 Notebooks used for analysis, trouble shooting, script development, data exploration, and verifying results of utility scripts.

### './scripts/'

 Utility and automation scripts to streamline cleaning, analysis, and plot generation. (Some scripts have acompanying jupyter notebooks.)


### './images/'

 Contains plots/figures/etc. either generated by a script or extracted from a jupyter notebook.


### './proposal/'

 Various documents (including hand scraped proposed events to consider) which serve to direct or synthesize results, for various investigations.

## Group Members
* Pragya Shakya
* Alexis Summey
* BADOU ARTHUR KOSSONOU
* Sancta Marie P.Isimbi
* Yongzhen Chen
* Jerry Greenough
* Michael Blackmon
* Godfrey Edokpia

